Before we dive into specific techniques,
you might be curious why Spark uses functional programming in the first place.
The core reason is that functional programming is perfect for distributed systems.
Last lesson, I described a distributed system
as just a bunch of computers working together.
Another useful and amusing description of these systems
comes from the computer science pioneer, Leslie Lamport.
He said that you know your system is distributed when your own computer
crashes because someone you didn't even know about made a mistake.
Functional programming helps minimize these sort of
mistakes that can cripple an entire distributed system.
Functional programming gets its name from the functions you saw in your algebra class.
These functions are more strict than your average Python function because in math,
a function can only give you one answer when you give it an input.
On the other hand, Python allows you to make some flexible,
albeit complex, functions that depend on the input and other parameters.
Also in math class, when you evaluate a function,
you would never change the inputs of that function.
But as weird as this seems,
this is exactly what can happen in Python.